Cookies on the BBC website
We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Strictly necessary cookies are on by default. Additional cookies are off by default.

Accept additional cookies
Reject additional cookies
Let me choose
BBC Homepage
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
Sign in
Notifications
Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize
More menu
Search BBC
BBC News
Home
InDepth
Israel-Gaza war
War in Ukraine
Climate
UK
World
Business
Politics
Culture
More
N. Ireland
N. Ireland Politics
Home heating oil and fuel prices drop to 2021 levels
A silver pump is unloading a home heating oil delivery into a green plastic tank. You can see a person holding the pump. They are wearing a grey rubber glove with a blue and white sleeve.
Image source,Getty Images
Image caption,
Around two-thirds of homes in Northern Ireland use home heating oil

Ralph Hewitt
BBC News NI
Published
6 May 2025
30 Comments
The price of home heating oil and fuel in Northern Ireland is at its lowest level since 2021, and the advice is to buy now – if you are able.

The average price of 500 litres of home heating oil is £258.78; a litre of petrol costs 128.7p, and diesel is 133.4p per litre, according to Consumer Council NI's, external (CCNI) weekly price checker.

In March 2022, 500 litres of home heating oil peaked at £662.86, petrol reached 189.9p per litre in July 2022, and diesel cost an average of 197.5p per litre in June the same year.

Despite the recent warm weather and the incoming summer months, CCNI's Head of Energy Raymond Gormley advised "now is a good time" to buy oil in what is a "volatile market".

Almost two-thirds of homes [62.5%] in Northern Ireland use oil for heating, the highest proportion of the UK nations.

Fuel a 'good chunk' of monthly wage
A woman with bright orange hair is smiling into the camera. She has a nose ring and is wearing large, brown glasses, a green short sleeved shirt and a green t-shirt. She is standing in front of a stall of flowers in plastic pots.
Image caption,
Tina Beggs can spend up to £150 a month on diesel

At a busy petrol station in Lurgan, County Armagh, some of those filling their cars up with petrol or diesel said while the prices may be low, they are still too expensive for many.

Tina Beggs said it is "ridiculous" that it costs almost £100 to fill up her two-litre diesel car.

"I work part-time, so I do 20 hours a week, which gives me about £1,000 a month, and by the time I pay for my mortgage, you're talking an extra £100 or £150 just on fuel," she explained.

"For somebody that works part-time, like me, that is actually quite a good chunk of my wage," she added.

A man with gelled black and grey hair smiles into the camera. He is wearing a pink short sleeved shirt. He is standing at the doorway of a shop with a garage forecourt behind him.
Image caption,
Michael Breen has noticed a difference in fuel prices at forecourts

Michael Breen believes the price of fuel "could be lower again" and has noticed a big disparity in prices at filling stations.

"You go to some petrol stations and there's a 10p difference in diesel, so there's a bit of shopping around as well," he said.

"It fluctuates all the time, and it'll probably go up again. Through the winter the fuel goes through the roof, and in the summer it drops again. That's the nature of it, really."

A woman with blonde tied back hair smiles into the camera. She has a nose ring and is wearing a light blue sweatshirt that says 'Miami' in capital letters. She is standing in front of a stall of flowers in plastic pots.
Image caption,
Tanya Preshur has switched to a petrol car to save on fuel costs

Tanya Preshur has recently switched from diesel to a petrol car, and she said while prices "could be lower", she's spending around £40 less a week on fuel.

"I use the car for school runs and running here and there with children," she said.

"Prices went sky-high. I think it's the smaller runs. You're using a lot more [fuel] because you're running back and forth all the time.

"I put about £40 to £50 a week in the car now, as before it was maybe £80 a week."

Litre of milk cost 'more concerning'
A man with short brown hair looks into the camera. He is wearing black squared glasses and a light grey pullover with the word 'O'Neill's' stitched on. He is standing at the doorway of a shop.
Image caption,
Dominic Thornton said he is concerned over the cost of home heating oil and food

Meanwhile, Dominic Thornton, who works close to his Lurgan home, said he was more concerned about home heating oil and food prices.

"We're maybe more worried about the cost of heating oil because we're moving from a small house, to a slightly bigger house so we're worried about how much that's going to cost to heat, along with the rising costs of everything else on top of that," he said.

"I wouldn't be pulling at the pump and looking at the price of a litre of fuel; I'd be more concerned about the price of a litre of milk."

Trump tariffs
CCNI's Raymond Gormley said the current low prices for fuel and home heating oil were due to several factors, including US President Donald Trump's trade tariffs and crude oil producers producing more oil.

The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which is an alliance of the top crude oil producers in the world, announced last month they were going to ramp up oil production by 400,000 barrels per day.

"So you take the impact on the world economies that Trump had and that overproduction; it has meant demand is low, supply is high and prices have come down," said Mr Gormley.

A man with short brown hair smiles and looks into the camera. He has blue eyes and is wearing navy jacket.
Image source,Consumer Council NI
Image caption,
CCNI's Raymond Gormley said home heating oil tends to be cheaper in the summer months

How much is home heating oil and fuel?


A really volatile market
Mr Gormley has advised consumers to buy home heating oil if they are able to do so, as it is "good value for money".

"That's not to say it will go down again next week, but equally, it could go up again next week," he said. "It's a really volatile market.

"In the summertime you have 100 different things you want to be spending your money on, and the last thing you want to do is be thinking ahead and going, 'I have a few spare pounds; oil is cheap; I could buy now for the off-season'.

"It's normally cheaper in the summertime than it is in the wintertime because of supply and demand – colder weather, demand is higher and the price goes up."

Tips for finding the cheapest oil
Mr Gormley said it's important to buy oil in bulk, as the smaller order you place, the more you pay per litre.

CCNI's weekly oil price checker, external allows you to see average prices for 300, 500 and 900 litres of oil, which gives consumers an idea of how much they should be spending before pricing local suppliers.

For those who do not have a lump sum available to order oil, Mr Gormley suggested joining an oil buying club, external where communities come together to buy oil in bulk and, hopefully, make a saving.

The NI Oil Federation also offers a pre-payment scheme, external, while oil fuel stamps allow residents to budget and spread the cost by purchasing stamps from local retailers and using them to pay for their oil delivery.

Related topics
Northern Ireland
Cost of Living
NI economy
Lurgan
Fuel
More on this story
£100 payment to help pensioners with fuel cuts starts next week
Published
12 March
Older person's hand adjusting a thermostat on the wall.
Home heating oil drops to lowest price in 14 months
Published
27 September 2024
Radiator with a house on it wrapped in a scarf

View comments | 30
Top stories
MI5 lied deliberately, BBC tells court
Published
1 hour ago
Killings near Gaza aid centre will deepen criticism of Israel's new distribution system
Published
5 hours ago
Madeleine search officers dig at abandoned building on day one
Published
4 hours ago
More to explore
What we know about killings near US-Israeli backed Gaza aid site
Palestinians carry aid supplies which they received from the U.S.-backed Gaza Humanitarian Foundation, in Rafah, in the southern Gaza Strip, June 3, 2025. 
'The abuse was almost daily' - grooming survivors share their stories
Four survivors of sexual assault appear with Victoria Derbyshire on BBC Newsnight
Holidaymakers 'frightened' in surreal gang shooting aftermath
Two boys peering inside Monaghans bar in Costa del Sol. One of them is wearing black shorts and the other is wearing a long shirt covering his shorts.
Madeleine McCann disappearance: A timeline
Madeleine McCann
'I begged for help, but only God answered': Growing dangers of pregnancy and childbirth in Gaza
Shaima al-Louh, 24, carries her three-month-old daughter, Jilan Zarrouk, at a makeshift tent camp for displaced Palestinians in al-Mawasi, on the outskirts of Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip (9 April 2025)
The British jet engine that failed in the 'Valley of Death'
An artist's impression of a futuristic looking space plane 
Should Verstappen have been given bigger penalty for Russell collision?
Attribution
Sport
Graphic image of, from left to right, Alex Albon, George Russell, Max Verstappen, Lewis Hamilton, Lando Norris, Fernando Alonso and Oliver Bearman. It is on a blue background with 'Fan Q&A' below the drivers
Mother of jailed British Egyptian activist vows to continue hunger strike despite risk of death
Sanaa Seif (L) sits beside her mother Laila Soueif (R) at St Thomas' hospital, London
Politics Essential: Get the latest news and analysis delivered to your inbox every weekday
Politics Essential graphic
Elsewhere on the BBC
Pulp perform a new exclusive show for BBC Radio 2

Attribution
iPlayer

WatchlistAdd Radio 2 In Concert to your Watchlist in iPlayer
Radio 2 in Concert: Pulp
Exploring iconic songs that were once banned by the BBC

Attribution
Sounds

SubscribeAdd Banned by the BBC to My Sounds

Ros Atkins uncovers the truth about how our money is spent

Attribution
iPlayer

WatchlistAdd Panorama to your Watchlist in iPlayer
Panorama: Is Britain Broke?
Romesh Ranganathan shares his desert island essentials

Attribution
Sounds

SubscribeAdd Desert Island Discs to My Sounds
DID: Romesh Ranganathan
Most read
1
Brits could face death for Bali drugs plot
2
Madeleine search officers dig at abandoned building on day one
3
Ukraine says it hit Crimea bridge with underwater explosives
4
Lower energy costs make retirement less expensive
5
Intruder arrested in Windsor Castle grounds
6
Child Q violated in strip-search, hearing told
7
Dutch government collapses after far-right leader quits coalition
8
Glastonbury 2025: Full line-up and stage times revealed
9
MI5 lied deliberately, BBC tells court
10
Holidaymakers 'frightened' in surreal gang shooting aftermath
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Best of the BBC
The hackers behind recent cyber-attacks
Attribution
iPlayer

Tooney and Russo catch up after a break
Attribution
Sounds

Fighting for answers and justice
Attribution
iPlayer

The role of expert witnesses in a trial
Attribution
Sounds

Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Make an editorial complaint
BBC emails for you
Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.